# Branch: V04
# Goals: 
* Add a JQuery call from our static page to the API
* Tweak our local development process
* Add a new feature to our API
* Deploy the new API feature
* Add the new feature to our static page


## Introduction to V04
You now have a functioning website with both dynamic and static content being served through Cloudfront.  We have the
basic plumbing done and its time to start adding features.  First, we are going to add some Javascript to make sure
the server works correctly - but to make it work locally we'll have to tweak our development process.  Then we'll add 
another feature to the API (a chirp count) and work through how we deploy new versions of the API.

## Add a JQuery call from our static page to the API

So we now have an api endpoint that can tell us the current server time.  Lets add that to our index page using
JQuery.

Open up **index.html** in the static-site directory.  Find where it says 

    <h1>Chirp</h1> 

and under that add:

    <div>Server time: <span id="serverTime">TBD</span></div>

We are going to have JQuery replace that "TBD" with the current server time.  Open up **chirp.js** and find where
it says:

    console.log("Document ready placeholder");

You can delete that line, and in its place we will add this call:

    $.ajax({
        type: "GET",
        url: "/api/v1/info/server",
        contentType: "application/json; charset=utf-8",
        success: function (res, statusText, xhr, $form) {
            $("#serverTime").html(new Date(res.serverTime));
        },
        error: function (res, statusText, xhr, $form) {
            $("#serverTime").html("<h1>Error trying to lookup time: "+statusText+"</h1>");
        },
        dataType: 'json'
    });

Let's go ahead and deploy that to our server using our Seedy command

**mvn -Daws.accessKeyId=XXX -Daws.secretKey=YYY seedy:s3-upload**

Running from the **static-site** directory, and then check out what happens by hitting **http://www.yourdomain.com/index.html**

If everything went well, you should see the server time output below the **Chirp** header.  If not, time to debug your
javascript!  Doing that is outside the scope of this document, but on Chrome I like to use **View/Developer/Javascript Console**.

## Tweak our local development process

Once we start developing in earnest we'll want to test our development locally before we push it to the production 
servers.  So lets try that out.  

Open up a command terminal and CD into the api directory, and run **mvn tomcat7:run**.  Make sure it starts 
by hitting **http://localhost:8081/api/v1/info/server**.

Open up another command terminal and CD into the static-site and run **mvn tomcat7:run**.  Make sure it starts by
hitting **http://localhost:8080/index.html**.  You should get your index page... but you'll notice that the 
server time isn't working.  What gives?  Well, when developing locally, we don't have Cloudfront doing our URL
splitting.  There are a variety of ways to deal with this, but here is how we are going to do it:

Go back to **chirp.js**.  At the top of the file (before the $(document).ready) add this:

    var hostname = location.hostname;
    var apiServerPrefix = (hostname=='localhost')?"http://localhost:8081":"";
    console.log("Using server prefix "+apiServerPrefix);

This will use our local server if we are running on localhost, and the same server otherwise.  Then, in the Ajax call replace:

    url: "/api/v1/info/server",

with

    url: apiServerPrefix+"/api/v1/info/server",

And hit refresh on your browser... it should work now!  This is the nice part about local development, changes are instantaneous.

Go ahead and deploy that version to the production server to make sure we didn't break anything (use the

**mvn -Daws.accessKeyId=XXX -Daws.secretKey=YYY seedy:s3-upload**

command in the static-site directory.  From here on in, when I say "deploy the static site to production" I'll assume you
know that is what I mean)

Hit **http://www.yourdomain.com/index.html** and make sure it still works.  If so, move on to the next step.

## Add a new feature to our API

Eventually we are going to add the ability to manipulate Chirps through our API, but for the moment we just want to 
see how to actually take new versions live.  Fortunately, Seedy also helps with this.  Lets add a new API feature, test it locally,
and then see how to push it into production.

We are going to add a service layer for chirps, and an endpoint to get to them.  Create a new directory, 
**api/src/main/java/com/erigir/chirp/service**, and in it create the file **ChirpService.java**.  In that file, lets
put this content:

    package com.erigir.chirp.service;
    
    public class ChirpService
    {
        /**
         * Returns a count of all chirps
         * @return int containing the count
         */
        public int getChirpCount()
        {
            return 0;
        }
        
    }

Now, in the file **ServiceContext.java** (under chirp/config), we need to create an instance of ChirpService, so open 
that file, and after the bean for ChirpFilter lets add:

    @Bean
    public ChirpService chirpService()
    {
        ChirpService bean = new ChirpService();
        return bean;
    }

Also we'll need to add

    import com.erigir.chirp.service.ChirpService;

At the top of the file.

And we need to expose this out through the web interface, so in **com/erigir/chirp/ctrl/v1**, lets create a file 
**ChirpCtrl.java**, with the contents:

    package com.erigir.chirp.ctrl.v1;
    
    import com.erigir.chirp.service.ChirpService;

    import org.slf4j.Logger;
    import org.slf4j.LoggerFactory;
    import org.springframework.stereotype.Controller;
    import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.*;
    
    import javax.annotation.Resource;
    import java.util.Date;
    import java.util.Map;
    import java.util.TreeMap;
    
    @Controller
    @RequestMapping("/api/v1/chirp")
    public class ChirpCtrl {
        private static final Logger LOG = LoggerFactory.getLogger(ChirpCtrl.class);
    
        @Resource(name="chirpService")
        private ChirpService chirpService;
    
        @RequestMapping(value = "/count", method = RequestMethod.GET)
        public
        @ResponseBody int chirpCount()
        {
            return chirpService.getChirpCount();
        }
    
    }
    
Let's compile and test it.  Kill your tomcat server for the API and restart with **mvn clean package tomcat7:run**
(in general we need to sometimes restart the API server, but never the static server).  Once the server starts (and
you do any needed debugging) hit **http://localhost:8081/api/v1/chirp/count** - you should get back a 0.

## Deploy the new API feature

Time to take the new API feature public.  This isn't HARD, but it is more difficult than publishing the static site,
since if we are taking live traffic we need to keep handling it even as we stand up the new version.  We do this using a
feature called "Zero downtime deploys", where we actually create a whole different set of servers running the new 
version, and then start sending traffic to them instead of the old servers - and never leaving the site without some
valid servers.  How do we do this?  Taking a look inside the pom.xml file under **api**, you'll find this section:

    <plugin>
        <groupId>com.erigir</groupId>
        <artifactId>seedy-maven-plugin</artifactId>
        <version>1.0-SNAPSHOT</version>
        <configuration>
            <afterGreenSleepSeconds>30</afterGreenSleepSeconds>
            <applicationName>${APP_NAME}</applicationName>
            <s3Bucket>${WAR_UPLOAD_BUCKET}</s3Bucket>
            <s3Prefix>${WAR_UPLOAD_PREFIX}</s3Prefix>
            <poolConfigFile>src/main/config/live-config.json</poolConfigFile>
            <solutionStack>64bit Amazon Linux 2014.03 v1.0.4 running Tomcat 7 Java 7</solutionStack>
            <prePingSleepSeconds>300</prePingSleepSeconds>
            <maxWaitSeconds>420</maxWaitSeconds>
            <liveServerDomainName>${LIVE_DOMAIN_NAME}</liveServerDomainName>
            <preFlipLiveWaitSeconds>15</preFlipLiveWaitSeconds>
            <terminateOldEnviroment>false</terminateOldEnviroment>
            <applicationFile>${project.build.directory}/${project.build.finalName}.war</applicationFile>
        </configuration>
    </plugin>

You'll notice some variables in there.  Lets go into what they are and what we should set them to.

* APP_NAME : This is the name of your application in Elastic Beanstalk.  In our case, **chirp**
* WAR_UPLOAD_BUCKET : When Java applications are deployed, first a WAR file is created and uploaded into an S3
bucket (similar to the one we are serving the website from) and then Elastic Beanstalk reads it from there to
create the server.  We haven't created a bucket for this yet, so lets do so.  Open the AWS console, and go to S3.
Create a new bucket (name it something like "seedy-deployment").  This name will be WAR_UPLOAD_BUCKET for you.
* WAR_UPLOAD_PREFIX : You may want to use Seedy to deploy multiple applications.  You don't need to create a new
bucket for each one, just use the prefix (which acts like a directory in S3).  We'll use **chirp/** (it should
end with a slash to make it work like a directory instead of a true prefix)
* LIVE_DOMAIN_NAME : This is the domain name your live server currently runs under.  I'm using api.elasticbeanstalk.com as a
placeholder in the documentation, but you need to fill in what yours is actually named.

Note that file referenced in there: **live-config.json** - this file is really useful for configuring important things
about your elastic beanstalk instance, like how many servers it should start.  You should take a look at it!  When you're
done, come back here and we'll deploy a new version like so:

**mvn -DWAR_UPLOAD_BUCKET=my-bucket -DWAR_UPLOAD_PREFIX=chirp/ -DAPP_NAME=chirp -DLIVE_DOMAIN_NAME=api.elasticbeanstalk.com \
  -Daws.accessKeyId=XXX -Daws.secretKey=YYY -DBUILD_NUMBER=1 seedy:start-new-environment **
  
And watch it start your new environment!  You can follow along in the AWS console by opening up the Elastic Beanstalk page
and watching it create the environment like you did last time.

Once its green, you should be able to test it by clicking the link it created (it should be a url like 
**http://api-1.elasticbeanstalk.com/api/v1/chirp/count**).  You'll notice that this url can get a chirp count, whereas
 the current LIVE url (**http://api.elasticbeanstalk.com/api/v1/chirp/count**) cannot, since its running an older 
 version.  Is that how yours looks?  Also, notice that you cannot hit **http://www.yourdomain.com/api/v1/chirp/count**
 either, since it is sending traffic to the old version.
 
Now note the button above your 2 green boxes labelled **Swap URLs**.  This makes a routing change inside AWS that changes
the names of the two Load balancers.  What this means is that the live URL becomes off, and the off URL becomes live.  Go
ahead and press that button, and wait until the boxes go back to green (they should go temporarily grey).

Once green again, try hitting **http://www.yourdomain.com/api/v1/chirp/count** (you may have to hit refresh a few times)...
TADA! your new version of your API is now live, with its new function!  Of course, AWS bills us per server, so lets
go ahead and shut down our old version by clicking the one named **chirp-prod**, and then hitting 
**Actions/Terminate Environment**.  **ALWAYS MAKE SURE YOU ARE KILLING THE NON-LIVE ENVIRONMENT!**

## Add the new feature to our static page

Ok, now that our feature is live on the API server, we can call it from our HTML page.  Edit index.html and under the
server time entry add

    <div>Chirp Count: <span id="chirpCount">TBD</span></div>

And in chirp.js under the first ajax call lets add another:

    $.ajax({
        type: "GET",
        url: "/api/v1/chirp/count",
        contentType: "application/json; charset=utf-8",
        success: function (res, statusText, xhr, $form) {
            $("#chirpCount").html(res);
        },
        error: function (res, statusText, xhr, $form) {
            $("#chirpCount").html("<h1>Error trying to lookup time: "+statusText+"</h1>");
        },
        dataType: 'json'
    });

Deploy that file to your live server, and see the count of 0 come out!

Congrats!  If you reached here, you are ready to move on to <a href="V05.md">Version 05</a>

